+++
title = 'Monthy Report: May 2025'
date = 2025-05-25T16:45:21+05:30
draft = false
tags = ["report", "monthly"]
summary = "A summary of the May monthly report!"
ShowReadingTime = true
[cover]
image = "posts/m5/forgejo-revamp-3.png"
alt = "m5-screenshot-new-commit-UI-redesign"
+++

# Monthly Report - `m5`:

1. **Redesigning the Commit View in Forgejo**.
    - I initially modified the default commit list design, which impacted all pages displaying commit lists across Forgejo. You can find the full details of those changes in this [blog post](https://iamyaash.github.io/fedora/posts/forgejo/ui/commit-ui-revamp/).
    - I actively engaged with the Forgejo community on the Matrix channel to gather feedback, clarify requirements, and get guidance throughout the process. (_I'm improving my communication skills, especially in technical discussions, though I know I still have room to grow in English proficiency._)
    -  [feat(ui): commit view redesign for pull request page #7948](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/pulls/7948)
        - The redesigned commit view, and it's now applied only to the pull request page.
        - The original design has been restored for other pages such as `commits` and `compare`.
    - During this work, I picked up some fundamentals of **Go's template syntax** and began to understand how templates are used within Forgejo.
    - I'm now comfortable with modifying and adapting the existing codebase to implement changes. While I’m not yet confident in writing full templates or logic from scratch, but I'm happy with the progress I’ve made in understanding the code and contributing meaningful changes.

2. **Wrote a Community Blog Post About My Work in Forgejo**
    - I was initially hesitant to write this post because I often feel that my personal blog posts aren't well-written. However, I decided to push through that doubt and share my experience.
    - The draft is currently under review and will be published soon.
    - In this post, I’ve clearly explained how I got started contributing to Forgejo, where I began, the challenges I faced, the actions I took to address them, and the solutions I came up with. It covers my journey from being a beginner in the codebase to contributing meaningful improvements.
    - I know I still have a long way to go, but I’ve included the early design in the post, which helps illustrate how I made those changes.

### Minor Tasks
- [chore: updated doc with description of metasource #69 ](https://github.com/gridhead/metasource/pull/69)

### Summary

I had exams this month, so I couldn’t make much progress. However, I was determined to complete the commit UI redesign, and I’ve made solid progress. My pull request is currently under review. Only a few minor changes are needed before it can be merged in upstream.

Once that’s done, I plan to open a new issue with a clear explanation and start working on applying the new design consistently across Forgejo, without causing conflicts with the existing layout.