+++
title = "Monthy Report: Mar 2025"
date = 2025-03-31T13:17:02+05:30
draft = false

summary = "A summary of the March monthly report!"
ShowReadingTime = true
[cover]
image = "posts/m3/devconf-in.jpg"
alt = "m3-screenshot-learn-golang"
+++

# Monthly Report - `m3`:
1. **Attended the DevConf India 2025** in Pune, Maharastra. (**_As part of the Fellowship_**)

```
    - First time travelling in flight.
    - First time traveling alone far from South India.
    - First time attending a conference.
    - First time staying in a hotel.
    - First time meeting the Fedora Project Contributors in real life.
```

**I’ve shared my experience at [DevConf India 2025 in this post](../devconf-india-2025/devconf-india-2025.md), take a look!** It may not be the best, but I’m working on writing better blog posts. :)

2. Working on Forgejo Theming
    - Finished theming the Forgejo blue colors for light theme and got the [PR Merged ✅](https://codeberg.org/fedora/forgejo/pulls/12).
    - Changed the Font to "Inter" for English and minor changes made to the dark theme[PR Pending ⏳](https://codeberg.org/fedora/forgejo/pulls/13).
    - Making minimal changes to the dark theme to balance the color schemes with respective to the theme modes.

3. Installed Pihole in the Raspberry Pi Zero 2W
    - Learned about IP address, [Dynamic & Static IP](https://iamyaash.github.io/stashed/posts/static-dynamic-ip/). Learned how to assign static IP using 2 methods
      - Modifying the `dhcpcd.conf`. (kind of complicated)
      - Assigning static IP using `nmcli` (seems relatively easy, better stick with this!)
    - Learned about DHCP, and how it works.
    - Installed **`pihole`** natively, 
        - which handles the network level advertisement and tracker blocking.
        - Also acts as the DHCP server.

4. [Learning `Go`](https://github.com/iamyaash/learn-go) for Forgejo UI Changes, as it uses `template` module for rendering the front-end:
    - Reading the **Effective Go** to learn to write in a proper way. Also [taking notes as well](https://github.com/iamyaash/learn-go/tree/main/effective-go). (considering I'm the type that learns when practically doing things!)

5. Learning **system design**, I haven't made any significant improvements, but I'm making progression little by little.
